Robot mapping sounds quite similar to localization.
Instead of assuming an old map and estimating your pose,
you're assuming an old path and estimating your environment.
So, what can be so hard?
Well, your posts can be defined with
some finite number of state variables such as the robot's x and y position.
In most applications, there are only a handful.
On the other hand, a map generally lies in a continuous space,
and as a result, there are infinitely many variables used to describe it.
Couple this with the uncertainties present in
perception and the mapping task becomes even more challenging.
I suppose, there may be
other challenges too depending on the nature of the space that you are mapping.
For instance, the geometry and whether the space is
repetitive in the sense that many different places look alike.
Exactly, you're right.
If you're driving through a forest which only contains trees of one type,
the kind where they are neatly planted in rows.
You're going to have a lot of trouble distinguishing
between trees and establishing correspondences.
Thus, making it challenging to map the environment.
In this module, you will be learning how to map an environment.
There are a number of different mapping algorithms
and we will be focusing on the occupancy grid mapping algorithm.
With this algorithm, you can map
any arbitrary environment by dividing it into a finite number of grid cells.
By estimating the sets of each individual cell,
you will end up with an estimated map of your environment.